# Small Business Savings with Smart Contracts
January 3, 2020

Enterprises of all sizes stand to benefit from the immense savings and security of deterministic Ricardian agreements, smart contract automation of various tasks and areas of trust, increased liquidity through tokenization, and easy monetization of their data. However, small businesses may capture the greatest relative benefit, as they codify away previously expensive areas of third party trust and contract enforcement. Small businesses are cash and time-strapped, and often must prioritize between improving ongoing operations, pitching new business, and chasing delinquent bills or deliveries. They’re unlikely to take the time and money to rectify the many frictions of current agreements (such as laborious debt collection or a prohibitively costly small claims court action), and would benefit highly from deterministic agreements and predictable, ensured payments that remove these frictions. 

Small businesses generally suffer from high comparative costs of trust and enforcement of agreements, through the limited manpower and funds demanded in chasing accounts receivable, mitigating or litigating contract breaches, and reallocating resources to accommodate unexpected lapses in payment. Similarly, administrative and regulatory concerns are expensive to small businesses that must scrap together compliance, legal, accounting, and tax departments from few participants in the business (to sometimes only one sole proprietor) already spread thin in the commercial operation of their enterprise. 

Through Ricardian contracts, small businesses may automate some of these chainsaws that entrepreneurs must currently juggle. Payments through blockchain smart contracts are virtually instantaneous and not subject to chargebacks. Even if customers with web3 wallets are few and far between, solutions abound in point of payment fiat on and offramps, and legacy payment system triggers via oracles. Payroll taxes and withholdings may be automated (and updated) via a Ricardian employment agreement (as demonstrated by OpenLaw). Many corporate organization and governance tasks, registry/administrative reporting, etc. may be maintained and automated by creating a type of hybrid LLC (limited liability company) and DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) structure known as a LAO (limited liability autonomous organization). LAOs are intended to limit business owners’ liability by apportioning company and members’ liability through traditional drafting and corporate structure, with the benefits of decentralized Ricardian contracts’ deterministic execution of company processes, revenue streams, tax and filing fees, etc.

Once small businesses incorporate basic smart contract/web3 infrastructure, doors to other opportunities in decentralized finance and governance open. For example, in some applicable industries (i.e. high value, low count inventory or prototyped products), small businesses may look to vastly increase their liquidity by tokenizing inventory, assets, or even intellectual property. For entities that are sensitive to commodity or other raw material price fluctuations, the emergence of synthetic derivatives present simple futures/swaps as a low barrier-to-entry hedge for such supply prices, provided the UX for such instruments is necessarily simple and well-audited. The size and nature of small businesses make it possible that some outfits would be exempt from some onerous regulatory requirements for the above (for example, security reporting for tokenizations theorized above may be unnecessary for those entities below a threshold amount of value). The CFTC/SEC would do well to provide guidance in this arena as adoption increases, and the Small Business Administration and the Chamber of Digital Commerce could unlock immense opportunity together in exploring the benefits of decentralized infrastructure for cash-and-time-strapped entrepreneurs and small businesses.

# Enterprise Public Chain Integration Developments
June 10, 2019

Enterprises are increasing their attention towards the previously unattainable trust-minimization, efficiency, and security of integrating their applications with public blockchains such as Ethereum. Until recently, privacy issues, scaling and transaction cost, and the lack of an emergent, inclusive onboarding framework have made such institutions reluctant to take the leap to trustlessness. Here are three recent developments that are especially encouraging to larger institutions seeking to integrate public blockchain and smart contracts: 

Privacy: Nightfall by EY

By using zk-SNARKS, Ernst and Young’s open source solution known as “Nightfall” enables the private transfer of fungible (ERC-20) and non-fungible (ERC-721) tokens between parties. The recipient address(es), token ID and value therein of the tokens transferred remain confidential for transactions accomplished through Nightfall. This is accomplished by introducing a “shield contract” in the transaction and mint/transfer/burn token commitments. A temporarily created Ethereum address is used to send such transfer transactions to the shield contract. The sender must provide gas for the transaction costs, thus the sender is afforded only pseudo-privacy as the gas origination address is likely to be ultimately traced to one of sender’s known addresses; however, the information that is far more likely to be sensitive/confidential (recipient address(es), token ID and value) is effectively obscured by the Nightfall protocol. Beyond the immense validation provided by a Big Four institution’s backing of an open source Ethereum project, Nightfall provides a massive boon to the potential of tokenized asset transfers (represented by non-fungible tokens) and the wide range of fungible token applications, including those used in various dApps or as collateral in cross-chain and/or offchain-enable transactions.

Efficiency: Threshold Signatures by Chainlink

Chainlink’s mission to provide secure, off-chain data-enabled smart contracts is one of the most ambitious and mind-bending in the smart contract space. One hurdle for the Chainlink network’s growth is the cost of verifying consensus for large groups of oracles and/or high-volume responses, if oracle responses were to be individually provided to the blockchain. Enter threshold signatures, a highly technical Schnorr signature-like implementation which has been described by the Chainlink team as providing a near 150,000% increase in efficiency independent of Ethereum’s scaling (a given example displayed a gas cost of approximately one cent, compared to a previous cost of about $17 for validation of 2,000 oracle responses). This effects a sort of peer-to-peer network between the oracles negotiating off-chain real-world data - a major advance for the integrity of such connections with smart contracts. Threshold signatures may also effectively combat part of the transition costs to public chain integration for enterprises, as they see their complex smart agreements execute for de minimus fees. Integrating with the public Chainlink network is necessary for the integral economic incentives of the network (e.g. the collateral held by nodes as penalty deposits, payment for premium API calls), and is necessary for interaction with entities and data sources outside of the enterprise itself.

Pilot/Production Framework Partners: Kaleido integrates Azure

Consensys’ enterprise blockchain spoke, Kaleido, seeks to provide enterprise blockchains with a “point and click” simplicity from concept to deployment. By recently adding Microsoft Azure to its supported cloud infrastructure, alongside their existing support of Amazon's AWS, Kaleido now supports 80% of current public cloud infrastructure. While Kaleido presents enterprises with an Ethereum-based private blockchain solution, in the future such onboarded enterprises are more likely to ultimately integrate or tether to the Ethereum public chain and other public chains, commonly hypothesized as similar to enterprises’ historical use of intranets before internet integration.  New partnerships with Truffle and Metamask seek to further speed up development, and PegaSys Pantheon provides a Java-based enterprise version of the Ethereum client for systems incorporation. Further, Kaleido’s native integration of OpenLaw will make the automation of smart legal agreements an attractive feature for enterprise clients seeking documentary efficiencies in their ultimate public chain integration plan.

# Smart Escrow Contracts
March 14, 2019

The traditional Escrow Agreement: an arrangement in which the solution to value transfer between two or more adverse, transacting parties is rectified by placing payment, signatures, and/or other conditions or actions in the control of an ostensibly neutral third party, to be disbursed upon the satisfaction of all required “conditions precedent” to a transaction’s closing. Few agreements present such an imbalance of complexity versus cost and are as ripe for disruption as the simple escrow agreement. Traditional escrow agreements tend to suffer from such disadvantages, inefficiencies, and issues as:

- Restriction to the banking/institutional hours of the escrow agent, which may cause issues in closing timing and additional costs and legal fees to expedite satisfaction of other conditions precedent in order to meet such deadlines. There are often additional costs to transfer funds and use different branches of the escrow agent (if even available) if banking hours expire and the parties must close outside of local banking hours. Such additional costs may include:

  1) Interest rate slippage, swap/break costs, costs to parties to re-price transaction if delayed to the next business day;

  2) Accommodating geographic concerns for any temporary time zone overlap of the parties, or the location of any underlying asset(s) if moving between jurisdictions of different legal or tax favorability, etc.;

  3) Tax timing considerations (for example if transaction must close at the expiry of a party’s fiscal year or the calendar year).

- Exorbitant escrow fees for an inherently non-complex task (commonly $5,000 to $25,000);

- High legal fees for negotiating the mechanics and payment waterfall/distribution logistics surrounding the timing inflexibility of banking hours and other eccentricities of escrow agent institutions;

- Prolonging the negotiation and deal process (and accompanying costs and legal fees), and the escrow agent often is permitted to resign with reasonable notice, necessitating a substitute escrow agent;

- Using a bank often requires a separate set of extensive documentation to comply with the relevant anti-money laundering regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act (for the USA), beyond those required in the underlying transaction; and

- Inherently relying on the parties’ trust of a third party, centralized entity, which presents an additional layer of security risk and potentially misaligned incentives including giving the escrow institution access to otherwise confidential information;

  1) Escrow agreements commonly include broad indemnities absolving the escrow agent of human error, such as excluding liability “for any error in judgment made in good faith by an officer or employee of the escrow agent unless it shall be proved that the escrow agent was grossly negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts or acted intentionally in bad faith.” Thus, simple negligence or system errors often do not provide redress for the parties; and

  2) Escrow agreements commonly include auto-compliance clauses that may leave the escrow agent’s processing of funds at the whims of pending litigation or arbitration.

Smart contracts are poised to disrupt the traditional escrow agreement. By placing funds via fiat currencies converted to cryptocurrency, stablecoins or tokens; e-signatures; rights to ownership or title via tokens; or other digital consents into a smart escrow contract, transacting parties may effectively eliminate the numerous problems enumerated above by using a trustless blockchain protocol to act as “escrow agent.” 

The escrowed funds may be released at any time of day or night, upon the condition of the parties’ choosing, which may be stipulated in the transaction’s core documents (for example, in the conditions precedent section of a loan agreement), or as a separate side letter between the parties, that agrees on the terms of the smart escrow contract. Release of the smart escrow may occur upon (i) sending payment (at any time) to the smart escrow address, (ii) satisfaction of a condition via an external condition as reported to the smart escrow contract by oracles (e.g., the coordinates of an underlying asset match a desired closing jurisdiction, or a certain level of interest rate fluctuation), or (iii) fulfilled e-signatures (such as the recently announced DocuSign Listener, which may trigger Clause.io’s “Smart Clauses” upon e-signature execution). Thus, when the transaction proceeds towards closing, an escrow agent institution would no longer be a limitation on consummating the deal.

As always, it is imperative to audit the smart escrow contract for any potential security issues, and to ensure the smart contract reflects the intention of the parties. The parties should also consider a time limitation or other condition to automatically return escrowed funds in the event the transaction is not ultimately consummated or upon mutual agreement, to prevent lockup of funds for an undetermined period should conflict between the transacting parties or other unexpected conditions arise. 
